. $topsrcdir/browser/config/mozconfig

ac_add_options --prefix=/usr
ac_add_options --libdir=/usr/lib

ac_add_options --with-pthreads
ac_add_options --with-system-bz2
ac_add_options --with-system-icu
ac_add_options --with-system-jpeg
ac_add_options --with-system-libevent
ac_add_options --with-system-libvpx
ac_add_options --with-system-nspr
ac_add_options --with-system-nss
ac_add_options --with-system-pixman
ac_add_options --with-system-png
ac_add_options --with-system-zlib

ac_add_options --enable-system-hunspell
ac_add_options --enable-system-sqlite
ac_add_options --enable-system-cairo
ac_add_options --enable-system-ffi

# make the -dbg package more meaningful with symbols
# ac_add_options --enable-debug-symbols=-g
ac_add_options --disable-install-strip

ac_add_options --enable-gstreamer=1.0
ac_add_options --enable-official-branding
ac_add_options --enable-optimize="$CFLAGS"
ac_add_options --enable-startup-notification

ac_add_options --disable-cpp-exceptions
ac_add_options --disable-crashreporter
ac_add_options --disable-elf-hack
ac_add_options --disable-gnomevfs
ac_add_options --disable-installer
ac_add_options --disable-javaxpcom
ac_add_options --disable-jemalloc
ac_add_options --disable-mochitest
ac_add_options --disable-pulseaudio
ac_add_options --disable-static
ac_add_options --disable-strip
ac_add_options --disable-tests
ac_add_options --disable-updater
ac_add_options --disable-xprint

export BUILD_OFFICIAL=1
export MOZILLA_OFFICIAL=1
export USE_SHORT_LIBNAME=1

mk_add_options BUILD_OFFICIAL=1
mk_add_options MOZILLA_OFFICIAL=1
mk_add_options USE_SHORT_LIBNAME=1
mk_add_options MOZ_OBJDIR=@TOPSRCDIR@/objdir
